---
layout: page
title: mechanism of retrovirus-induced leukaemia illuminated by tocky
date: 2024-06-13 06:00:00
img: assets/img/htlv/self.jpg
description: The spectrum of self-reactive T cells and their activation mechanisms exploited by HTLV-1 infection
category: review and opinion
related_publications: true
---

[Our new review/opinion paper](https://academic.oup.com/discovimmunology/article/3/1/kyae006/7670780) proposes a new paradigm for understanding self-reactive T cells, highlighting their spectrum and significant roles in T cell response and infections caused by the leukemia-inducing Human T-cell Leukemia Type 1 virus (HTLV-1) {%cite 10.1093/discim/kyae006%}.

<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/summary.jpg" width="750" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>

---


#### The Spectrum Self-reactive T cells Elucidated by Tocky

The Nr4a3-Tocky technology plays a key role in elucidating the role of a newly defined type of T-cells, Periodic TCR-Signalled T-Cells. These cells include regulatory T-cells (Treg) and memory-phenotype T-cells, both of which receive T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling spontaneously and periodically.

This type of TCR signalling contrasts with the acute TCR signals typically observed during inflammatory responses. This innovative technology facilitates the understanding that these T cells have TCRs that react to antigens in the body, often categorised as self-reactive.

Importantly, some Treg cells may lose their Foxp3 expression and participate in the memory-phenotype T cell group. Meanwhile, memory-phenotype T cells may newly activate Foxp3 transcription, thus joining the Treg fraction.

Ultimately, the distinction between the two populations hinges on Foxp3 expression. This leads us to a straightforward understanding that Foxp3 expression is dynamically regulated within the reactive T-cell repertoires. This regulation allows the investigation of self-reactive T cells as a spectrum of T cells, in which T cells show dynamic changes over time.


<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/self.jpg" width="500" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>

These findings support that the periodic TCR signals are the unique dynamics that characterise these self-reactive T cells and related cells.

---


#### Self-Reactive T Cells’ Response: Periodical and Acute Signals

Regardless of their self-reactivity, T cells can respond to antigen stimulation. However, self-reactive T cells, periodically receiving TCR signals, may respond uniquely to acute TCR signals.

Various publications have discussed this topic for Treg and memory-phenotype T cells. Below is a summary figure illustrating possible behaviours of self-reactive T cells.

<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/model.jpg" width="800" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>

---
#### HTLV-1 infection

Our analysis collectively supports the model that HTLV-1 preferentially infects and transforms self-reactive T cells, which periodically receive TCR signalling, exploiting activation mechanisms within these T cells.

Some researchers claimed that 'HTLV-1 induces tumorigenesis in regulatory T cells,' but our investigation has clarified that their perspective is overly simplistic and fails to capture the fundamental aspects of processses during infection and transformation.


<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/htlvjpg.jpg" width="800" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>


In my next article, I will explore how this mechanism has been investigated in various studies, highlighting an underappreciated role of HTLV-1 research in the discovery of CD25+CD4+ T cells – regulatory T cells – and thereby highligh the missing piece in the understanding of these cells.


---
