---
layout: post
title: retrovirus targets dynamics of t cells as illuminate by tocky 
date: 2024-06-03 12:00:00
description: 
tags: htlv1 self-reactive t cells treg
categories: blog
featured: true
related_publications: true
---

The review/opinon paper proposes a new paradigm for self-reactive T cells, highlighting the wide range of these T cells as a *spectrum* and their prominent roles in T cell response and a leukaemia-causing human retrovirus infection, Human T-cell Leukemia Type 1 virus (HTLV-1). 

<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/summary.jpg" width="750" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>


#### The spectrum self-reactive T cells elucidated by Tocky

Nr4a3-Tocky plays key roles in elucidating the role of a newly defined type of T-cells, Periodic TCR-Signalled T-Cells. These cells include regulatory T-cells (Treg) and memory-phenotype T-cells and both receive T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling spontaneously and periodically. 

This type of TCR signalling contrasts with the acute TCR signals typically observed during inflammatory responses. This concept is facilitated by the innovative Nr4a3-Timer-of-cell-kinetics-and-activity (Tocky) technology.

This is because these T cells have TCRs that react to antigens in the body, which are often categorised as 'self-reactive T cells'. 

Other lines of evidence indicate that some Treg cells may lose their Foxp3 expression, participating in the memory-phenotype T cells, while memory-phenotype T cells may 'newly' activate Foxp3 transcription, joining in the Treg fraction. Ultimately, the distinction between the two populations is the Foxp3 expression. This means that the understanding of Foxp3 expression as a dynamically regulated gene expression allows to investigate these 'self-reactive' T cells as a spectrum of T cells, in which T cells show dynamics changes across time.

<div class="row mt-3">
     <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/htlv/self.jpg" width="500" height="auto" %}
    </div>
</div>

These support that the periodic TCR signals are the unique dynamics that feature these self-reactive T cells and related cells.



---

---
